For this course, you will be provided with a shared Melbourne Research Cloud virtual machine (VM) to complete lab exercises and projects.

The purpose of this prelab assignment is to provide you with access to this VM. 

1. Generate an SSH Key Pair
Generate a private/public key pair.
Instructions on how to do so can be found here: Prelab Part 1 (PDF)

2. Submit your Public Key
Once you have your public key, edit and arrange the key such that your public key is followed by a space and your university username.

E.g. For a student with university username "jsmith1", their public key generated by ssh-keygen:
ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIC....PLINzFBgAUF1LNViF john@johnsmith.macbook
will become:
ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIC....PLINzFBgAUF1LNViF jsmith1@johnsmith.macbook

Paste and submit the public key (as plain text, with no extra comments/padding/formatting, etc.) in this assignment.

E.g., your submission will look something like this:

ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAI... username1@your.host

3. Wait to Receive the IP Address of your VM
IP addresses will be shared after Saturday of Week 1. 

We will periodically harvest the public key submissions and upload the keys to your allocated virtual machine.

Once your key has been processed,  this assignment will be marked as complete/incomplete, with automated feedback comments (Click the View Feedback button) stating the IP address of your allocated machine or a message stating the reason for failure.

4. Connect to your VM
You should now complete Part 2 of the prelab, available here: Prelab Part 2 (PDF)

If you are experiencing any difficulty in completing this task, have a read of the threads that are on the discussion forum (or create one if none matches your problem). Please do not reply to the comments section of your submission (as they are automated); use the discussion forum instead. 

Feel free to edit ~/.ssh/authorized_keys to add more keys (e.g. for multiple devices) and configure the environment to your liking. 

We hope that you have a great time using the VMs! 

5. Experiencing issues?
See VM Connection Guide for more information: https://edstem.org/au/courses/21529/discussion/2438035Links to an external site.

Lost Keys
In the event that your private key is lost, you may resubmit this assignment (following the same instructions) to regain access. 

Last harvest: 2025-05-03 01:47:50.500523 Australia/Melbourne​